# Pyber Analysis

## Overview
We were asked bt management to do an analysis of how well Pyber is doing across cities and specifically how Pyber is performing across urban, suburban and rural cities. 

## Analysis
To run our analysis we used two data sources: ride data and city data, where the ride data showed us individual rides in each city, on what date they happened and the fare generated from each ride while the city data showed us city type (urban, suburban, rural) and how many drivers there are in each city. We merged these two data sets to run our analysis.

Our initial analysis focused on rides per city types, driver count and the breakdown of fares, rides and drivers by city. Ultimately the management team wanted us to dig a bit deeper into how much revenue each city type is generating for the company.

To run this analysis we created a DataFrame that compiled all the fares generated by each city type and displayed that data in a line chart that showed fares generated from each.

## Results
Our analysis shows that urban cities generate the most fares, contributng 62.7% of of all fares while suburban areas account for 30.5% and rural cities account for 6.8%. The bulk of our analysis was broken down into the following categories:

**Total Rides**: The majority of rides come from urban cities, accounting for 68.4% of all rides, while suburban areas accounted for 26.3% and rural 5.3%. 

[Total Rides by City Type](https://github.com/RebelKell/PyBer_Analysis/blob/main/Analysis/Fig6.png)
<br>
<br>
**Total Drivers**: Unsurprisingly, urban areas had the highest percentage of drivers among all city types, likely allowing for the total rides in urban areas to be so high as well.
<br>
<br>
**Total Fares**: As mentioned above, urban areas account for 62.7% of all fares, making it by far the most profitable city type.

[Fares by City Type](https://github.com/RebelKell/PyBer_Analysis/blob/main/Analysis/Fig5.png)
<br>

**Average Fare per Ride**: While rural cities actually have the highest average fare, the fact that they only account for 5.3% of rides means that they do not meaningfully contribute to the overall revenue compared to urban and suburban areas. 

The management team was particularly intersted in total fares generated by each city type did in the first quarter of 2019 (January - April). Our analysis shows that urban areas generated the highest total revenue. This tracks with our initial anylsis which clearly showed that the high volume of rides in urban areas would naturally contrinute to the highest total fares.

[Fares by City Type](https://github.com/RebelKell/PyBer_Analysis/blob/main/Analysis/fare_by_city.png)


## Summary
Based on our analysis it is safe to say that the majority of Pybers revenue comes from urban areas and that rural areas, while generating higher fares-per-ride, do not impact the business in the same way due to the lower volume of rides. 

Based on our finding we would recommend the three following strategies:

1. Invest in recruiting more drivers across the board. More drivers means more rides which means more fares. 
2. Work to increase ridership in suburban areas. Average fares are slightly higher in these areas and while they account for less rides overall, more revenue can be genreated with higher ridership.
3. Keep a close eye on rural areas to determine how valuable investing in these areas is. Low ridership and low driver count means that while having a presence there may be valuable, investing money in increasing volume here may be a waste of time and money.

